From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three 46. Recorded
live Thursday, November 15, 2012.
This episode is brought to
you by Tellerik offering the
best in developer tools and
support online@teltrikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training developers to
work smarter and now offering
gesture pack a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details@gesturepak.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with herb Sutter about
souplesse blocks. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'm here bill we're in
building 92 in Redmond, the
bill conference, and I'm in
a room here called the
brain box and you can
probably hear people milling around
in the background. We'll call
that ambient noise and I'm
sitting with herb Sutter. How
are you, sir? Hey Scott.
Doing well. Thanks for chatting
with me today. I really
appreciate it. I wanted to
come and talk to you
because I know that you're
totally excited about C plus
plus I've known debate. You
have been known to be
totally jazzed about, and I
learned equals plus in school
and I grew up on
C plus plus, and then
she sharp happened and then
I became a managed developer
without even knowing it. You
kind of transitioned silently over
to C sharp, and now
I'm worried that I've become
completely like a I'm only
sharp. And I look at
C plus plus, and I
find it scary, you know,
and I think that there's
a L there's a generation
of managed developers that are
kind of spoiled and they
may look at C plus
plus, and they say, why,
why is she plus plus,
so before I even answer
that, you mentioned you had
UC POS in the past.
Now you've been away from
it for I'm assuming say
more than two years. Oh
yeah. The reason I mentioned
that is because we still
call it C plus plus,
but it's a very different
language now, really. We just
had the new C puzzles,
11 standard, which was the
second standard for C plus
plus. And if you're familiar
with C plus plus before
you're thinking C plus plus
98, is that what I'm
thinking? That's a really good
question because that's in 1998
means in 1998, exactly the
last century last millennium, depending
on how you count and
be honest, true steps has
it. Well, I think when
he says C plus plus
11 feels like a new
language on my website,
dot com. There's a top
level link to elements of
modern seat puzzle style, which
is like a five minute
read tells you the top
six or seven features that
will affect almost every five
line program fragment. You're right.
You'll still notice that C
plus plus, but you'd be
forgiven if at first you
didn't realize it was because
there are so many convenience
features that and power features
there now. And there's much
more Than what's just at
that page, but that gives
you the quick overview of
what's new and different and
why it really does feel
like a new language. I
think the last time that
I did C plus plus
was just in that transitional
point when people started using
template libraries and I think
for ATL and STL, and
you got a whole host
of maps and sequences and
cues and things that you
could potentially bring in, and
that made sequel supposed to
feel like a different language.
So the STL was adopted.
The standard template library was
adopted in the mid to
late nineties and it came
in the standard 95, 96,
and then people started adopting
it after the standard was
published. And that took a
while. Some were faster to
adopt it than others. It
was really nice. And you
could combine algorithms and containers
very nicely through iterators. It
was very extensible. So basically
you had end plus Emmons
that of end times them
very much better than some
of the, the very hardwired
baked together, Oh, style containers
that people had done in
the past. That was a
big deal 15 years ago,
but that really was 15
years ago. We've come a
long way since then, if
you have not seen modern
C plus plus using auto
Lexi sharp far using range
based for loops using Lambdas
everywhere, you'd be forgiven for
not thinking it was sequel
salsa anymore, but it very
much is. And we've added
those features and much more
including move semantics and other
things that are very performance
related to enable people to
have a lot of the
same productivity, but without sacrificing
the efficiency, I mean, see
puzzles is cornerstone has always
been, it's a systems programming
language, you get full access
to the hardware and iOS,
if you need it, but
have efficient abstraction. So you're
not talking at the functional
of you're talking about classes
type generosity and those things,
but that you don't pay
for what you don't use,
that it all optimizes a
way very nicely. And so
that's been the hallmark of
it. So you're getting those
features, not instead of efficiency,
but in an efficient way.
Also, I like, I like
that, that that phrase you
don't pay or what you
don't use. And that's mostly
true. I want to spend
the caveat. If you want
to say strictly, that's not
true yet virtual functions, there
is overhead for V tables
if you'd, if you don't
use them. Right. So there
are a couple, or especially
for the dynamic type info
stuff. It's very rare in
all of C plus plus
that you get exceptions to
don't pay for what you
don't use. And almost all
of them were already there
and see Postal's 98. But
you know, when I I'm
thinking about this and you're
kind of bringing back all
these terms in my mind
that you know, how long
ago was that, you know,
15 years ago, we were
literally concerned about V table
performance. Like, you know, you
used the virtual here and
I think I don't want
to do that and you
can get more out of
it, but now we're taking
things for granted. I mean,
we've got interpreted languages running
major, top 10 websites. Do
I care at all about
performance though anymore, right? Why
I've been abstracted away for
so long? You know, even
memory management I've forgotten about
All the time. You may
not, certainly we don't worry
about V table calls nearly
as much anymore as we
used to. However, performance is
still important. And the two
places where it's most important
is mobile performance per watt
matters. And also in the
data center were performance per
users. Matter. Like for example,
I'm talking with Andre, Alexandra
sq, who's a well known
CPL sales personality. And he
wrote modern SQL plus design.
And around the year 2000,
which really influenced a lot
of the, the generosity type
generosity that people use. He
now works at Facebook. And
as a research scientist there,
one of the things he's
noticed is that Facebook which
had been programmed in PHP
and other languages has more
and more gone to C
plus plus for performance. And
one of the things that
he pointed out in a,
in a panel we were
on not long ago, it
was very interesting because he
pointed out just in passing
and then I called him
on it. And I really
emphasize this to the audience.
Did you notice that Andre
just said the primary measurement
is Watts per user Watts
power like Watts per user,
Like I'm writing some code
and I'm thinking about it
Electricity. Yes. Because that's one
of your major costs in
a data center. If you
turn a, I've got a
channel nine, a, a YC
plus boss talk, you can
find it on channel nine.
And I just realized, let's
see, it's got another round
of views on Twitter in
the last couple of weeks.
It goes into it in
more detail. But I point
out there some research and
data showing why. And if
you look at a data
center costs power, isn't actually
the major cost. That's a
common misconception, but it's the
second biggest one, delivering power
using it. And then getting
rid of the heat is
the second biggest cost after
the hardware and those two
things together, hardware and the
power account for roughly 88%
of data center costs today.
This is something that a
programmer can fundamentally change the
business. Exactly. Because if you
make a program that is
twice as efficient means it
uses half the resources you
need half the size of
a data center. You need
half the size of an
elastic cloud for that application.
You need half the cost
roughly because you immediately save
out of that 88% and
some of the rest, you
also get savings on. So
efficiency does matter. And it's
interesting because as soon as
you, and of course, that's
kind of obvious on mobile
devices too, because twice as
efficient means runs twice as
long around battery. As soon
as you say the data
center and mobile, that's what
a pincer movement looks like.
And because many of those
same techniques now matter in
the mainstream. And we see
that here at build with
all of those mobile techniques,
mattering on tablets, because what
is a mobile device anymore
today? I really confused by
when people talk about a
mobile device because PCs laptops
have been for a long
time. And that is clearly
the direction that we're going
with that kind of convergence.
So all of these things
matter more than ever. Now.
Having said that if your
biggest program are costs to
the cost of your application
is developer time, which it
really was in late nineties.
And through the early two
thousands, a lot with enterprise
apps and in house ops
optimize for that, that's what
language is that optimized developer
timer for. And that will
continue to be true Microsoft.
And that my team, we
love C sharp and.net. It's
a great tool. That's good
at things to SQL. So
it's not good at, we
love JavaScript and HTML. We
are built on C plus.
Plus if you take a
dependency diagram of all the
teams at Microsoft and what
team depends on what, there's
only one team at Microsoft
that everybody transitively depends on.
And that's our team. It's
not even windows because say,
X-Box, doesn't currently run on
windows who knows what'll happen
in the future. I don't
know if those plans, so
I'm not being coy, but
it currently doesn't. And if
you even look at.net, a
lot of good stuff runs
on.net, but not everything. For
instance, not the core ROS,
there's only one team that
transitively builds everything. And that
also means we just had
a really, really busy release
cycle because the visual SQL
sales team had to support
everything windows was doing, bringing
up a new arm, target
arm, targeting for windows eight,
bringing up a winter. Our
all the winter tee stuff
has been built in C
plus plus and using the
windows runtime time library, and
now more SQL CX, now
that that's available. So we're
sort of at the center
of things, nevermind that while
the whole tablet thing was
happening, GPTP was also happening.
And so we did C
plus plus app. It was
a busy release cycle for
us. I want to, I
want to slow you down
a little bit because the
audience may not understand everything
that you just said. I
think you said a couple
of interesting things, though. You
said that you've got SQL
plus running on arm. So
arm is a target. So
non-Intel, Nanex 86 on X
64 targets. You also, Our
competitor has to enable that
for windows and apps to
build, to run on ours.
Exactly. But then there's also
kind of an oblique reference
there to running a C
plus plus code on a
GPU on a, on a,
on a graphics processing unit.
Right. Talk a little bit
about that. Cause that kind
of flew by. Sure. Oh,
that's and you know, maybe
not, everybody's familiar with that.
So the idea of that
you have a coprocessor, remember
the days we had a
three 86 and a three
87, right. And then you
wouldn't want the SX, right?
Yeah. Even you couldn't run
Excel. And then even 46
is a lot of the
46, four 87, but now
we take it for granted
that the floating point unit
is integrated in your processor.
Why would you ever have
one? Did we ever did,
was that in fact, a
reality ever, was that just
a bad dream that we
didn't always have a floating
point processor today? If you
look at today's hardware target
in the marketplace, virtually something
like half on the order
on the close order of
half of the installed base
from grandma's PC used to
corporate desktops of pieces of
hardware have not just a
good CPU, but also a
compute class GPU already in
the box. It's mostly being
used for graphics to run
the monitor. It turns out
that that GPU isn't as
general purpose as a CPU,
although it's gradually getting there,
but people have figured out
ways over the past 10
years to trick it into
doing computation for you. And
that's become its own boutique
industry where now the graphics
cards actually support that. And
there's standards like open cl
industry consortium standards. I mean
like open cl and a
Nvidia has their Kuta software.
And what we try to
do is bring that to
C plus plus. So SQL
has amp accelerated massive parallelism.
A few masks is all
about how I run a
parallel for loop on a
GPU. And we try to
make that as seamless as
possible. And I've got to
talk on that also available
on channel nine, if you,
if people can easily find
that C plus plus amp.
And we announced that last
year at the AMD fusion
conference, because fusion is an
example of an architecture where
the GPU compute class GPU
is right there on the
same Silicon on the same
die in the same package
as your CPU. Now think
about what C plus plus
is all about. It's all
about leaving no room for
a language lower giving you
full control to express everything
you need to express, give
you full access to the
hardware. It was unthinkable for
us. It went right to
the core of our being
that half the installed base
has hardware available that can
run certain parts of your
application, 10 X and more
faster. And you couldn't touch
that from a C plus
I was program that spoke
directly to the key value
proposition and the key mission
of C plus Boston. So
we felt we had to
do something about that as
well. Of course, the transition
to taking advantage of GPS
for computation came at the
same time as the whole
tablet revolution. So our industry
has been in convulsions right
now, and it's been a
busy couple of years, but
those are some of the
highlights of what we've put
together. And we think people's
most developers and more will
enjoy it. And SQL source
11 makes sequels feel very
modern and sleek and it's
fast and it's clean and
it's safe as clean and
safe as many languages and
just, and still always pedal
to the metal fast. That's
a really nice place to
be in a nice offering
to have that more and
more. We see industry moving
toward again. I hate to
put, bring this quote in,
but it's one of my
favorite quotes of all time,
which is, you know, don't
call it a comeback. I've
been here for years. That's
actually a good quote. I
haven't heard that So well,
you probably don't listen to
the same music I listened
to, but there have been
a number of people who
have said, well, you know,
SQL plus has been sleeping,
but really it has been
here for years. It isn't,
this isn't a comeback or
a resurgence C plus plus,
and its popularity has remained.
It's just not amongst kind
of the, what I call
the text boxes over data
crowd, right? The business developer
is a web developer. You
know, hasn't been doing that
work that the, the ups
surgeons have a asp.net and
node and PHP, and these
kind of, you know, virtualized
languages interpreted languages has been
happening. Where has sequels plus
been for the last 10
years while we have been
writing webpages and doing text
boxes over data, what industries
has it been embedded itself?
Well, I mentioned before that
Microsoft runs on C plus
plus we're built on C
plus plus that is true
of every major company is
true of every major industry.
So I, it would be
a mistake to point to,
you know, the people would
often point to, Oh, look,
scientific and engineering, as soon
as you've done that. Yes,
it's very applicable, but it's
a pigeonhole there's Mars Doing
that. People like taking people's
plus and saying only smart
PhDs can, Well, people like
to pigeon hole everything it's,
but it's a very horizontal
language. In fact, if you
think of the role C
has played, the world is
really built if you want,
I want to be crisply
correct about it on C
and C plus plus everything
runs on those. There is
nothing in the world if
software in the mainstream, anywhere
that does not transitively depend
on CNC plus plus because
C was very important as
a portable assembler. So Dennis
did a great job, Dennis
Richie at making that possible.
When people said it couldn't
be done, you couldn't write
at a high level. What
was then a high level
functional function, programming, structured programming,
and still target efficiently a
wide array of architectures. What
C plus plus has done
is taken that heritage, that
ability to be efficient on
a lot of different kinds
of hardware and add a
deficient abstraction. So really there's
very little reason and lots
of, of to not use
that and lots of good
reasons to adopt it. Talk
about classes, type generosity without
sacrificing that portability and efficiency,
and that ability to say
what you really want to
say without a language that
gives you some guardrails to
make simple things simple, more
than ever now in C
plus plus 11, that you
can always open the hood.
You can always go and
change your own oil and,
and rewire the carburetor if
you need to. Because that's
the place that we, that
we live in, where you
don't leave room for a
language lower, other than assembler.
And very few people actually
drop to assemble or ever
these days, Hey, this is
Scott and I am really
excited about these guys. This
is a special offer from
our friends at DN simple,
true story. Carl reached out
to Dan simple to ask
them if they wanted to
advertise with Hanselman it's because
we like them that much.
I was a kind of
a funny thing. They didn't
come to us. We went
to them because we think
DNSimple is great. It's a
hosted DNS service that you
use to manage your domain
names. Prices started about $3
a month for up to
10 managed domains. You can
also use DNSimple to register
domain names, purchase SSL certificates.
All of my domains have
been moved off of GoDaddy
and are now at DNS
simple. I like it because
there's an application on my
iPhone. I can manage my
DNS from there. There's an
API that you can use.
The best part actually is
these one click services. So
you can register a domain,
get it up and running
in a couple of minutes
and then go in and
apply services to it. So
you can say this domain
is for Google apps and
this domain is forget. Hub
pages in this domain is
preposterous and they know the
DNS records and set them
up for you. Even for
something as complicated as Google
apps, there's like 11 different
settings. You need to create,
they handle it all for
you. So here's the deal.
They've got a special 30
day trial. You can cancel
at any time, but Hansel
minutes listeners get three months
of free DNS service. So
you've got a DN, simple.com/h
M special deal for Hansel
minutes. Listeners just visit DN
simple.com/h M Hanselman. His listeners
get three months of free
DNS service love these guys.
They're so nice. DN, simple
hosted DNS, check them out.
Some people will point to,
to Google and their choice
of like kind of three
favorite language. But now that
is kind of breaking away.
People are introducing things like
go and Google. So the
idea that there are only
three languages you're allowed to
write a Google is changing,
but they'll point to Apple
that really loves objective C,
which is kind of the
C has a C plus,
plus he feel to it,
but it's their flavor. It's
their language. But then they'll
look at Microsoft and say,
well, Microsoft supports all these
languages and that side, you've
got John, not just C
sharp, but also F sharp
and now iron Python and
things like that. Why don't
we pick one language and
make that the language and
all other languages be darned?
Yeah. Some people have said,
well, why don't you, why
don't you just pick one
the same reason? Why would
you pick a hammer or
a screwdriver? Isn't one going
to do all the work?
Well, it depends what the
job is you're trying to
do. And by the way,
I'd also like a saw
and a drill. And that
toolbox that idea, that a
systems today, and this has
been true of sequences developers
for a long time. You
don't use just one tool.
If you use just one
tool that limits what you
can do. Now, having said
that, remember I said, portable
efficiency, portable efficiency, and flexibility
is where C plus plus
plays. If you want to
write an application, you're going
to write the UI differently
on each platform, obviously, because
the UI is going to
be different on Android iOS
and say windows phone. But
if you want to write
the core guts of that
application and portable code, that
you can do it in
exactly C or C plus
plus, and it's target Android,
iOS and windows phone, you
have no other choices. And
in fact, the C doesn't
work so well. Well see,
now I have to see
sharp though. I just talked
to a guy a couple
of weeks ago that wrote
a game called stick man,
using mano, which is doing
an amazing job of allowing
on Android, on iPhone, on
windows, phone, on windows, all
platforms, all tablets, all platforms,
95% code reuse because they
have an abstraction layer called
mano came. This is X
and a. So they wrote
to the, you said the
writing the UI, they actually
didn't have to port the
UI. They did it all
in X and X. And
so similarly we have some,
some nice wins lately with
the unity engine or where
people are able to write
portable code. What I'm getting
at is if you're looking
at the list of competitors
that Apple, for instance, supports
the languages, they officially support
that. Thou shalt not use
anything else for iOS development.
They're getting a little there.
They're listening a little bit,
but it's been, look, see,
see fossils, objective. See, we
don't want to see nothing
else running on there. And
then you're getting a little
bit looser, but that's what
Apple supports. If you want
to use third party tools,
that's great. But when you
look at what the actual
OSTP vendor supports, Google has
a nice experiment and go,
but they support Java and
CNC, crosswalks, we and windows,
phone support C sharp.net and
CNC. Plus, plus, if you
take now, look at, if
you want to write a
portable application on windows eight
and Mac and Linux, again,
you can have some portable
frameworks, but if you to
use the language is directly
supported in those environments, CNC
puzzles, again are your go
to languages. So if you
care about portability and care
about efficiency and support on
all sorts of platforms, whether
it's the data center or
mobile, the desktop, wherever you
have code, you want to
run. Portability has always been
a big name of the
game. And you can have
that efficient abstraction, not have
to drop down to naked,
starts and pointers like C,
but have modern code that
is widely portable and will
run fast. And that's a
pretty good place to be.
It's not the only place
to be. If you only
care about one or two
platforms, you have an engine
that will run on those
platforms, doughnuts and use it.
You'd be a fool not
to, but then think about
what the tool offers you
and what your needs are
and pick the right tool
or more often the right
set of tools for that
job. Not just because it's
something that you used on
your last piece of code.
I want to bring this
full circle because I want
to talk back to the
idea of users and Watts
and the thought that as
a, you know, it's always
a good reminder as a
developer that you're not there
just to write cool software,
you're there to support a
business. And then the idea
of Facebook where they've got
a billion users, literally they
could tell you crazy. Yeah.
I think they're working on
their second billion now. Yeah.
So they're working on 2 billion
users and there that you
could probably ask somebody how
many Watts, you know, like
the lights in this data
center are on and it's
costing us this many Watts.
It brings up a really
interesting question that then you
take the pundits and the
pundits are out there saying,
please take the place. Yeah,
I really take my pundits,
please. These pundits are saying
it was a rap reference.
And then there's also a,
yeah, we're quite, we're getting
record our references span, collect
dates. So these, these pundits
are writing these articles and
they're useless. And they'll say,
well, the iPad three has
41.2 kilowatts hours and their
battery and the surface has
this many, but the idea
of like, well, here's a,
here's an arbitrary number in
time that describes how many
kilowatt hours that this battery
supports. But without any real
discussion about the language efficiency
and efficiency of it, Does
your mom care? How long,
how many kilowatt hours you're
saying She wants to know
whether it lasts six or
10 hours, 10 kilowatt hours.
If it lasts the entire
transatlantic flight, we did a
good job. And it depends
on the iOS. So windows
has got smart. The iOS
Android have got smart about
power sipping and efficiency, the
whole stack down to the
hardware. Intel's got smart. Andy,
you've got smart arm has
been smart a while. And
now we've learned from them
and about power sipping efficiency.
You need those pieces in
place. But on top of
that, once you have those
pieces in place, your app
can still do crazy stuff
or it can be efficient.
And the, if your competitor's
app last 10 hours on
that flight and yours last
five hours that's matters. I
was on a transatlantic flight
recently and I was watching,
I think be like a
grandmotherly type on an and
you know, what she was
doing. She was double tapping
home and she was shutting
down the quote unquote background
programs. And every time I
see that, it just kills
me because I want to,
you know, maybe, you know,
you don't know me, but
can I sit down and
talk to you about what
the true multitasking operating system
versus a cooperative operating student,
we kind of solve this
problem, but there's this person.
And now I'm seeing people
here at bill trying to
shut down what they perceive
as background processes with their
windows store applications. And I
don't think that that myth
of the background process is
going to go away until
we really have 10 hour
full day battery life. I
mean, really, that's what it
is. And we've been trained
one way and we need
to retrain. I mean, when
I first got my iPad,
the first thing I thought
was I was going to
download some video or something
from the iTunes store a
couple of years ago. And
the first thing I did
was I thought, Oh, I
better plug it in and
keep tapping the screen to
make sure it doesn't go
to sleep. Duh. I figured
it out after a day.
Okay. That doesn't matter. It'll
just work in the background.
Same thing with any modern
kind of device. A funny
thing about the iPad, by
the way, I love my
iPad. I have to say
the D love because I
love it. It was great.
I love my iPhone. I
even The politically incorrect things
in Microsoft executive meetings saying,
holding up my iPhone and
saying, you will take this
out of my cold dead
hand, which fortunately didn't get
me fired, but it was
how I felt. And I
always will say how I
feel. I've been running here.
You can see this, your
audience can't, I've been running
last year's hardware, a slight
seven. This is not a
surface. This is last year
slate, seven hardware that came
with windows seven. I got
from a Microsoft store, just
flattened it and installed when
a consumer preview. And then
when at RTM haven't looked
back, that was in April
and it became my, I
was going to do it
as an experiment. And within
a week it was my
main machine. Cause I used
all the time. And I
just sit at my desk
at home where it worked
with three big screens and
it's docked or at a
keyboard and mouse, or I'm
sitting here just like I
was before we started talking,
doing email on it's my
favorite machine. It is my
favorite notebook PC I've ever
had. It's not a notebook.
It is my favorite tablet
I've ever had. And as
we were doing the site,
we're going to launch this
coming Friday. I'll talk about
that more in my talk
at build on Friday. Well,
maybe you can point people
to it because they will.
This is now, Oh, we're,
we're now in the future.
We're in the future. You
can go to ISO cpp.org,
ISO cpp.org, brand new site
with lots of sponsors and
a new industry foundation showing
the increasing at another data
point, the increasing investment in
C plus plus across the
whole industry. It's a really
big tidal wave resurgence. And
I think resurgence is a
proper word, at least in
awareness, but also in investment.
But as I did that,
I wanted to test the
site and make sure it
looks great on all form
factors. From my phone to
my big desktop monitor. And
two, I wanted to make
sure the iPad worked. There's
a few of those out
there. So I went to
get my iPad, to try
it out in portrait and
landscape mode, make sure that
the rotation worked and everything.
And as I reached for
my iPad, the first thing
I realized this was around
July. I'd had my tablet,
my Samsung for three months
by then, Then I had
to do was Wipe the
dust off my iPad because
then I realized I haven't
touched it since I've had
this tablet. And I never
noticed I never missed it,
which is, which is something
interesting. I think at least
that's been my experience. Okay.
There is the thing though
that some listeners might say
that, well, you know, you've
just drank the Microsoft Koolaid.
Hey, I'm the guy who
said politically incorrect things about
my iPhone and executive editor.
I will tell what I
will tell you. And I
will tell anybody exactly what
I think this is my
favorite tablet. And one of
the things that I like
about this when I tablet
is I find myself using
it as a tablet, way
more than I ever used
my iPad first, because it's
one device. I don't have
to carry a second device
around all the time to
do my, to my desk.
My clamshell work at my,
yeah, I've been saying that
since, before it was popular
to say, I'm holding up
my ultra book. This is
the one I've been Pollyanna.
This is a three pound
ultra book touch screen,
but I can also run
a hyper V on it.
Yes, I've got my official
studio, but it's not really
the best, you know, for
running movies and stuff. So
I've got my iPad here
with me, but I've been
looking at like the, the
new Lenovo, I think it's
called a yoga and it's
an ultra book, but it
flips backwards 180 degrees. And
then turns into a tablet.
This one here with the,
that has the cover. You
just fold it like a
tent. Very similar to that,
except it doesn't have a
keyboard built in like the
surface does. So I'm definitely
getting a surface pro as
soon as those are available
in a couple of months
Type pad, I'm going to
need a real keyboard for
myself. But the key thing
about it is it's my
favorite tablet ever use and
I'm using it more than
I ever used my iPad.
This is just my own
experience. A cause it's always
with me and B because
I can be docked and
using it, using all my
applications and a big screen,
and then just pick up
where I was and sit
in the corner and read
and just without losing my
place and constantly be in
the same experience. So that
you're a producer and not
the consumer. When I sit
and read news, when I
redo my news reader, when
I do email, a lot
of it's reading, I take,
I just undock this and
put it in my lap
because it's more easy, it's
easier, but I can easily
seamlessly switch back and forth.
And that is a really
big deal. We're in an
election season here and I'm
not sure probably by the
time that this is aired,
we will have a new,
a new president. We've got
the pundits out there that
are talking about, you know,
all the different statistics and
things and, you know, statistics
be darned, but we're kind
of also in another election
season that you've alluded to
a little bit. Yeah, We
were talking about this just
before we went on there.
And I was saying, you
know, it seems like it
just struck me yesterday. I
think we're in two election
seasons because we have the
one election season where you're
being wallpapered with ads and
analysts and reviewers, and some
of the ads are positive
and a lot is mudslinging,
negative ads. And everybody wants
to see who the winners
going to be as we
record this six days from
now. And so that's one
kind of thing, personally. I
just, I wait for it
to be over cause I'm
very apolitical, but you know,
this is whole election season.
And I realized, you know,
we have another one going
on because if you look
at the iPad mini announcement,
the Kindle fire and the
new Kindle announcements, you look
at surface out, you look
at at what all these
different people are doing. And
especially Google coming out with
nexus. And a lot of
it, I'm glad to say
the Microsoft ones I've seen
are not negative ads. Cause
I, I look at Stevenson
offscreen and he talks about
how great the iPad is,
what it does, which is
exactly right. But I'm seeing
some of the negative ads
now on the Amazon side
about the iPad mini and
the sniping back and forth.
And I think we're, I
think it's, you know, it's
like, Hey man, we're in
an election season. This holiday,
according to at least as
far as these four companies
are concerned because everyone wants
to see how the popular
vote for tablets is going
to go to seven inch
tablets, bigger tablets, what's the
vote going to be for
operating systems. So it's kind
of an election season in
that way, mirroring this other
one that we've got, it's
going to be fun to
see what consumers pick. And
I think this, all of
this is good because it's
not one winner or another
it's choice and people can
use what's right. For them
that applies to tablets and
portable devices just like it
applies to programming. Right? Exactly.
And I always use my
wife as the example, and
everyone uses the kind of
nontechnical spouse. I I've used
the term wife, wife, acceptance
factor. Describe any particular piece
of technology. Like my harmony
remote control is like the
greatest remote control. My logic
tech harmony remote control has
finally solved that, that first
world problem, which was the,
I had six remote controls.
Now I have one. I
was thinking of using one
of those afterwards. You're gonna
have to tell me how
it works. It is a
joy because I hate my
three remote control. My wife
hates me Go to my
blog, harmony, remote control, review
it, you program it on
the web, just dragging buttons
around and you put you
say, Oh, I have a
TiVo and I want to
click. So there's literally a
touchscreen and I say, watch
TV. And it goes, and
it automates everything. It needs
to happen. So hi wife
there. Now I've said before,
and I've had a number
of people say, well, that's,
it's not, it's not gender
neutral. What about the husband?
Acceptance factor, hack factor or
the nontechnical spouse. So it
has been suggested to me
that I say nontechnical spouse
upset, except it's factor. But
somehow doesn't quite roll off
the spouse acceptance factor. Yeah.
So we use Family acceptance
factor. Cause your kids matter
too. Right? That's the set
of all people who aren't
me and I really am
interested in seeing like, what
do they want? Like, what
does grandma, Your posse you
give technical support to. Yeah,
well I'm technical support for
the entire entire family. I
run the domain. I run
the email when email's down,
I'm going to hear about
it. And I told my
wife, I was going to
install windows eight on the
kitchen PC. And she said,
no way. She said no
way, I'm going to wait
for the next version. She
says, I don't know what
it's going to do. And
I don't, I just want
it works now. So there's
an interesting, kind of interesting
statement there, which is the,
it works now. But then
she starting to see these
ads on the TV and
she's like, well, wait, hang
on a second. I kind
of like the calendar app.
Can you just give me
that one app Election season
we're being papered with ads.
So it's funny. My wife
Is the last person who's
going to let me put
a beta of anything then
I've totally it's out. It
really is out good. Well,
you know, I like it.
You know, I've got it.
I mean, I'm not trying
to sell her on the
thing. All I know is
I want to calendar on
the kitchen PC and that,
you know, recipes and the
stuff that she she wants
to deal with. So I'm
slowly kind of feeding it
to her, showing her my
tablets and then saying, well,
I can put this on
the machine. Cause it's actually,
the shame is it's a
touchscreen kitchen PC. It's one
of the old original HP
touch smarts with two, two
points. But that's enough because
basically the kitchen PC has
recipes, calendaring, email, occasional browsing,
and then maps. She used
touch on it. Now, you
know, she only uses touch
to pinch, to zoom when
she's looking at the maps,
but intuitively for her touch,
isn't the thing. But then
again, you know, I don't
know where the mouse keyboard
generation it's going to take
awhile, but the kids, they
use it for solitary. My
four year old he's learning
solitaire. And he, a amount
of mouse makes no sense.
A mouse is a useless
appendage. It's like, why would
I poke at things with
a stick? If I can
tell Exactly that's exactly what's
happening. So I think that
I may be one of
these kind of get off
my lawn, old men at
some point where, you know,
I want my mouth, my
hotkeys for me, it's hotkeys
for my kids. It's touch.
It's going to be interesting
to see how they accomplish
tasks in the future. And
it depends what you're doing
because touch can't do everything
that a mouse can do
or track pad. You want
accurate pointing. You want a
stylist or track patent out.
So that's perfectly fine. You
want to write with ink,
you want a stylist. You
don't want to be using
one of those, those pens
that really are like a
crayon cause they simulate a
finger, but it's what you're
trying to achieve. And in
the usage experiences that are
nicely touch enabled, man. It's
so great to use that.
In fact, one of the
big things I see coming
out of this wave of
products, I don't know how
Companies, I don't mean anyone,
but the entire year Ecosystem
of companies that make laptops
and desktops, how they're going
to cope with the coming
change and user expectations of
being able to touch anything.
Because I've heard more stories
in the last month about
people who have touched a
surface who have touched a
windows eight device, including their
notes Books. Yeah. I've been
pulling at my non touch
enabled notebook for awhile And
then leave fingerprints on their
Chromebook or something like that.
People are really seeing how
great it is because after
all I love that star
power. Even in windows seven,
I had a touch enabled
notebook before this. Yeah. There's
my start bar. I always
pin my frequent absolute star
part. And I just got
used to just clicking them.
And yes, you can say
mechanically, it doesn't make sense
to hold your arm out
like this all day, but
you don't, you just reach
and touch. You do this
all day long. We're designed
for it. And once you
do that, you say, well,
why should I have to
reach for something else? Take
my eyes away. Or my
finger to reach for a
mouse. It look, there it
is. I just want that.
And Funny story that I'll
end on is that my
year old, they, they watch
Netflix on the Xbox. So
the four year old deals
X-Box pause and then he
runs, but there was a
movie I couldn't get on
the Xbox. And I was
instead I hooked it up
to the iPad and I
hooked up the HTMI cable
rights with the HD mic
plugged into the thing. And
then I've also been doing
airplay, throwing the video up
there. So the four year
olds like Xbox, I got
a P X box X
box. What is your problem?
I have to pay to
be sitting here screaming at
the television because he doesn't
understand why it's going to
pause. And it's like, where's
the remote? Where's the remote.
He sounds like a little
old man. He's like, where's
that remote? It's interesting because
we are now seeing, especially
with this wave of devices
and it's not just Microsoft,
but right now Microsoft is
kind of alone and the
others are going to have
to catch up. It's I
think this is good for
everybody. We're seeing the second
wave of the new, new
user interface, the new ease
and especially the new wave
of mobile devices, because the
first generation was all about
having a mobile device, that
power sips and having icons
and apps. This is now
very much a second wave
that we're leading the industry
and it'll be cool to
see what all kinds of
companies come out with products.
I'm looking forward to consuming
them all. Yeah, absolutely. I
want to wave my hands
in front of my monitor
and move things from side
to side. I just want
to be Tom cruise. I
do want to be Tom
cruise. Thanks so much for
chatting with me today. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and see you
again. Next .